Question 2: Pointers and Functions 
Write a C program to model currency exchange transaction at a bank. The program should implement the function curr_change described below according to its specifications. 

In the main function, create a data structure to store the exchange rates between the local currency and a set of international currencies (for both buying and selling); you should include at least three international currencies. The currencies should be modelled using C-strings.

For simplicity, assume that the maximum exchangeable amount is fixed (based on the local currency). Exchanges can only occur between the local currency and one international currency, either as sell or buy operation. 

In the main function, prompt the user to input the amount of money, its currency, and the target currency. Your program should validate user’s input before being processed. For valid inputs, the program should then display the exchange rate, the converted amount, any leftover amount, and the bank’s cap on the transaction amount.

The function curr_change is defined as follows: 
void curr_change (float amCur1, float amMax, float excRate, float *amCur2,float *leftOver) 
Where the parameters: 
• amCur1: specifies the amount in currency1 provided by a customer. 
• amMax: specifies the maximum amount in local currency which can be exchanged at the bank. 
• excRate: specifies the exchange rate from currency 1 to currency 2. 
• amCur2: specifies the amount the customer gets in Currency2. 
• leftOver: specifies the non-converted amount in currency 1 returned to the customer if amMax gets exceeded. 
The parameters amCur2 and leftOver must be used as pointers in the function.


A text file named students.txt contains student records, each consisting of a name (string) and a
 mark (integer), the file is attached. 
However, the file may contain corrupted or incomplete records, for example, missing names, missing 
marks, or non-printable characters in the name field. 
Write a C program to: 
a) Read all records from the text file
 b) Validate each record as follows:
 • The name field must be non-empty and consist of printable, non-numeric characters1.
 • The mark field must be an integer. For simplicity, we assume that if the mark field is
 numerical, its value is integer.
 c) If a record is invalid (corrupted), skip it by moving the file pointer to the next line
 d) Display:
 • Each valid record as it is read.
 • The total number of valid and corrupted records.
 • The average mark of valid records (if any).
 e) Handle possible file I/O errors (e.g., file not found).
 What to submit 
• C code concisely commented along with evidence of testing.
 • Explain, with reference to the relevant code statements, how you handled corrupted data in the file.


 Question 4: C++ Coding 
A laboratory collects sensor measurements of different data types. Assume two sensors, one providing an 
integer value and the other providing a double value. The sensor readings will have to be calibrated by a 
multiplicative factor and an offset value as explained below.  
1You can use the functions isprint and isdigit from the string.h header 
In the requested program, display all values right-aligned using C++ I/O manipulators, with a field width of 
10 and a precision of 4 digits. Input and output must be performed using C++ stream objects (cin and cout) 
rather than C-style functions. 
 Write a C++ program which includes the following functions:
 1) Template Function: S calibrateValue(...)
 Parameters:
 x: a constant input C++ reference variable2 of the template type S.
 factor: a char type numerical value.
 Action: 
Returns the product of x and factor. The return value is of type S. 
2) Function: void adjustReading(....) 
Parameters: 
value: a pointer to a double representing a sensor reading. 
offset: a double with a default value of 1.25. 
Action: 
Adds offset to the sensor reading value.
 The function does not return a value. 
3) Function: void clampReading(...)
 Parameter: 
r: a C++ reference variable to a double representing a sensor reading. 
Action: 
Modifies the sensor reading in place such that: 
• If r < 0, it is set to 0.
 • If r > 100, it is set to 100.
 4) Function: double computeDifference(int a, double b)
 Returns the value of a − b. 
5) main() Function
 i)
 Ask the user to input:
 • One integer sensor reading.
 2Reference to the definition of C++ reference variable and constant in the lecture notes 
• One double sensor reading.
 and read the values accordingly. 
ii)
 Call the template function calibrateValue() twice to calibrate the integer sensor reading and the
 double sensor reading by 2
 Print the resulting values of the sensor readings. 
iii) Convert the calibrated integer sensor reading to double
 iv) Call the function adjustReading() twice:
 • First for the converted integer sensor reading, without providing the second argument of the
 function.
 • Second for the double sensor reading, providing 3.4 as the second argument of the function.
 Print the resulting values of the sensor readings. 
v) Call clampReading() on two adjusted values from step (iv)
 Print the resulting values of the sensor readings.
 vi) Convert the double value of the integer sensor back to an integer. Print the resulting value of the
 sensor reading.
 vii) Using computeDifference(), compute the difference between the clamped values of double and
 integer sensor readings.
 Print the resulting value
